
"Very sorry to knock you up, Watson," "but it's the
common lot this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she
retorted upon me, and I on you."



"No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in a
considerable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me. She
is waiting now in the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander
about the metropolis at this hour of the morning, and knock
sleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it is
something very pressing which they have to communicate. Should it
prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to
follow it from the outset. I thought, at any rate, that I should
call you and give you the chance."




"Good-morning, madam,"  "My name is Sherlock
Holmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson,
before whom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am
glad to see that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the
fire. Pray draw up to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot
coffee, for I observe that you are shivering."



"What, then?"



"You must not fear," "We shall soon set matters right, I have no
doubt. You have come in by train this morning, I see."



"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm
of your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had
a good drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached
the station."


"There is no mystery, my dear madam," "The left
arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven
places. The marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a
dog-cart which throws up mud in that way, and then only when you
sit on the left-hand side of the driver."





"Farintosh," "Ah yes, I recall the case; it was
concerned with an opal tiara. I think it was before your time,
Watson. I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote
the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend. As to
reward, my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty
to defray whatever expenses I may be put to, at the time which
suits you best. And now I beg that you will lay before us
everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the
matter."


"I am all attention, madam."

"The name is familiar to me," 



"Your sister is dead, then?"



"Pray be precise as to details," 


"Perfectly so."



"Indeed," "Was it your custom always to lock
yourselves in at night?"


"And why?"


"Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement."



"One moment," "are you sure about this whistle and
metallic sound? Could you swear to it?"

"Was your sister dressed?"



"Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when
the alarm took place. That is important. And what conclusions did
the coroner come to?"



"How about poison?"


"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"



"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"


"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a
speckled band?"

"These are very deep waters," "pray go on with your
narrative."



"You have done wisely,"  "But have you told me
all?"

"Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screening your stepfather."





"You have been cruelly used," 


"This is a very deep business,"  "There are a
thousand details which I should desire to know before I decide
upon our course of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If
we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for
us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your
stepfather?"


"Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"



"Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?"


"And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself some
small business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and
breakfast?"


"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" 

"Dark enough and sinister enough."



"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the
very peculiar words of the dying woman?"


"When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of
a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor,
the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has
an interest in preventing his stepdaughter's marriage, the dying
allusion to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner
heard a metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of
those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its
place, I think that there is good ground to think that the
mystery may be cleared along those lines."



"I cannot imagine."


"And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going
to Stoke Moran this day. I want to see whether the objections are
fatal, or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of
the devil!"




"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," 


"Indeed, Doctor," "Pray take a seat."

"It is a little cold for the time of the year," 


"But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," 


"Your conversation is most
entertaining," "When you go out close the door, for
there is a decided draught."



"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," 

"He seems a very amiable person,"  "I am
not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him
that my grip was not much more feeble than his own." 

"Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official
detective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation,
however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer
from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now,
Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk
down to Doctors' Commons, where I hope to get some data which may
help us in this matter."




"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," . "To
determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the
present prices of the investments with which it is concerned. The
total income, which at the time of the wife's death was little
short of 1100 pounds, is now, through the fall in agricultural
prices, not more than 750 pounds. Each daughter can claim an
income of 250 pounds, in case of marriage. It is evident,
therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have
had a mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to
a very serious extent. My morning's work has not been wasted,
since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for
standing in the way of anything of the sort. And now, Watson,
this is too serious for dawdling, especially as the old man is
aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if you
are ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo. I should be
very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your
pocket. An Eley's No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen
who can twist steel pokers into knots. That and a tooth-brush
are, I think, all that we need."


"Look there!" 



"Stoke Moran?" 



"There is some building going on there," "that is
where we are going."


"And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," "Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest."


"I thought it as well," 
"that this fellow should think we had come here as architects, or
on some definite business. It may stop his gossip.
Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner. You see that we have been as good as
our word."



"We have had the pleasure of making the doctor's acquaintance,"



"So it appears."

"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone
more cunning than himself upon his track. You must lock yourself
up from him to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to
your aunt's at Harrow. Now, we must make the best use of our
time, so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to
examine."


"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep,
the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main
building to Dr. Roylott's chamber?"


"Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does
not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end
wall."


"Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow
wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There
are windows in it, of course?"


"As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were
unapproachable from that side. Now, would you have the kindness
to go into your room and bar your shutters?"

"Hum!" "my theory certainly presents some
difficulties. No one could pass these shutters if they were
bolted. Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon
the matter."


"Where does that bell communicate with?" 



"It looks newer than the other things?"


"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"



"Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there.
You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to
this floor." 

"Why, it's a dummy," 


"No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting.
You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where
the little opening for the ventilator is."


"Very strange!" "There are
one or two very singular points about this room. For example,
what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another
room, when, with the same trouble, he might have communicated
with the outside air!"


"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" 

"Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that
time."



"What's in here?" 



"Oh! you have seen inside, then?"

"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"


"Well, look at this!" 


"Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a
saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I
daresay. There is one point which I should wish to determine." 

"Thank you. That is quite settled,"  "Hullo! Here is something interesting!"



"What do you make of that, Watson?"


"That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it's a wicked world,
and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst
of all. I think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and
with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn."


"It is very essential, Miss Stoner,"  "that you should
absolutely follow my advice in every respect."



"The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Your life may
depend upon your compliance."



"In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in
your room."


"Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe that that is the
village inn over there?"



"Very good. Your windows would be visible from there?"



"You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a
headache, when your stepfather comes back. Then when you hear him
retire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window,
undo the hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, and then
withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want
into the room which you used to occupy. I have no doubt that, in
spite of the repairs, you could manage there for one night."



"The rest you will leave in our hands."



"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate
the cause of this noise which has disturbed you."

"

"Perhaps I have."


"I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak."



"No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some more
tangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if
Dr. Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.
Good-bye, and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you,
you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers
that threaten you."



"Do you know, Watson," "I have really some scruples as to taking you
to-night. There is a distinct element of danger."


"Your presence might be invaluable."


"It is very kind of you."



"No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imagine
that you saw all that I did."


"You saw the ventilator, too?"


"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to
Stoke Moran."


"Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that her
sister could smell Dr. Roylott's cigar. Now, of course that
suggested at once that there must be a communication between the
two rooms. It could only be a small one, or it would have been
remarked upon at the coroner's inquiry. I deduced a ventilator."



"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. A
ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the
bed dies. Does not that strike you?"



"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"



"It was clamped to the floor. Did you ever see a bed fastened
like that before?"



"The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the same
relative position to the ventilator and to the rope--or so we may
call it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull."



"Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong
he is the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge.
Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.
This man strikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall
be able to strike deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough
before the night is over; for goodness' sake let us have a quiet
pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more
cheerful."



"That is our signal," "it
comes from the middle window."





"It is a nice household,"  "That is the baboon."

"The least sound would be fatal to our plans."



"We must sit without light. He would see it through the
ventilator."



"Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your
pistol ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of
the bed, and you in that chair."






"You see it, Watson?" "You see it?"


"It means that it is all over,"  "And perhaps,
after all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will
enter Dr. Roylott's room."


"The band! the speckled band!" 



"It is a swamp adder!" "the deadliest snake in
India. He has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violence
does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls
into the pit which he digs for another. Let us thrust this
creature back into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to
some place of shelter and let the county police know what has
happened."




"I had,"  "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which
shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from
insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of
the word 'band,' which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to
explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of
by the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an
entirely wrong scent. I can only claim the merit that I instantly
reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me
that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not
come either from the window or the door. My attention was
speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to this
ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to
the floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was
there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and
coming to the bed. The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me,
and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was
furnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I
was probably on the right track. The idea of using a form of
poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical
test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless
man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity with which such
a poison would take effect would also, from his point of view, be
an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could
distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where
the poison fangs had done their work. Then I thought of the
whistle. Of course he must recall the snake before the morning
light revealed it to the victim. He had trained it, probably by
the use of the milk which we saw, to return to him when summoned.
He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he
thought best, with the certainty that it would crawl down the
rope and land on the bed. It might or might not bite the
occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but
sooner or later she must fall a victim.

"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his
room. An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in
the habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary
in order that he should reach the ventilator. The sight of the
safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to
finally dispel any doubts which may have remained. The metallic
clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather
hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
Having once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in
order to put the matter to the proof. I heard the creature hiss
as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the
light and attacked it."

"With the result of driving it through the ventilator."

"And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master
at the other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and
roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person
it saw. In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr.
Grimesby Roylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to
weigh very heavily upon my conscience."








