
"Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety," "and the humbler are usually the more
interesting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social
summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie."



"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all."



"No, distinctly professional."



"One of the highest in England."



"I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my
client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his
case. It is just possible, however, that that also may not be
wanting in this new investigation. You have been reading the
papers diligently of late, have you not?"



"It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I
read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The
latter is always instructive. But if you have followed recent
events so closely you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his
wedding?"



"That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord
St. Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn
over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter.
This is what he says:

"'MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES:--Lord Backwater tells me that I
may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I
have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you
in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in
connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is
acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no
objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that
it might be of some assistance. I will call at four o'clock in
the afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that
time, I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of
paramount importance. Yours faithfully, ST. SIMON.'

"It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen,
and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink
upon the outer side of his right little finger," 

"Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon
the subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in
their order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client
is." "Here he is," "'Lord Robert Walsingham
de Vere St. Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral.' Hum! 'Arms:
Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846.'
He's forty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage. Was
Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration. The
Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on
the distaff side. Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive in
all this. I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something
more solid."


"Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square
furniture van. That is quite cleared up now--though, indeed, it
was obvious from the first. Pray give me the results of your
newspaper selections."



"Terse and to the point,"




"Anything else?" 



"Before the what?" 


"When did she vanish, then?"



"Indeed. This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite
dramatic, in fact."


"They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during
the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt
as this. Pray let me have the details."


"Perhaps we may make them less so."


"And is that all?"

"And it is--"


"And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would
not have missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell,
Watson, and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I
have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client. Do not
dream of going, Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness,
if only as a check to my own memory."

"Lord Robert St. Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open
the door. A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face,
high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about
the mouth, and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose
pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed. His
manner was brisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue
impression of age, for he had a slight forward stoop and a little
bend of the knees as he walked. His hair, too, as he swept off
his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin
upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the verge of
foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat,
yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters.
He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to
right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his
golden eyeglasses.

"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," s"Pray
take the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
Watson. Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this
matter over."


"No, I am descending."



"My last client of the sort was a king."


"The King of Scandinavia."

"What! Had he lost his wife?"

"You can understand," "that I extend to the
affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to
you in yours."



"Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public
prints, nothing more. I presume that I may take it as correct--this
article, for example, as to the disappearance of the bride."



"But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could
offer an opinion. I think that I may arrive at my facts most
directly by questioning you."



"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"


"You were travelling in the States?"



"Did you become engaged then?"



"But you were on a friendly footing?"

"Her father is very rich?"



"And how did he make his money?"


"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your
wife's character?"



"Have you her photograph?"



"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your
acquaintance?"


"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"



"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a
fait accompli?"



"Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the
wedding?"



"Was she in good spirits?"



"Indeed! That is very interesting. And on the morning of the
wedding?"



"And did you observe any change in her then?"



"Pray let us have it, for all that."



"Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman in the pew. Some of
the general public were present, then?"


"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"


"Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less
cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do
on re-entering her father's house?"


"And who is her maid?"


"A confidential servant?"


"How long did she speak to this Alice?"



"You did not overhear what they said?"

"American slang is very expressive sometimes. And what did your
wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?"



"On your arm?"

"No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that.
Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose
hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She
never came back."


"Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in
company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who
had already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran's house that
morning."





"Did your wife hear all this?"


"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"


"Well, it is a possible supposition."



"I did not say a probable one. But you do not yourself look upon
this as likely?"



"Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters. Pray
what is your own theory as to what took place?"


"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"


"Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis,"  "And now, Lord St. Simon, I think that I have
nearly all my data. May I ask whether you were seated at the
breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?"



"Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.
I shall communicate with you."


"I have solved it."


"I say that I have solved it."


"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."



"It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting
it on a level with his own," "I
think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all
this cross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to the
case before our client came into the room."


"I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I
remarked before, which were quite as prompt. My whole examination
served to turn my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial
evidence is occasionally very convincing, as when you find a
trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau's example."



"Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which
serves me so well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some
years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich
the year after the Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these
cases--but, hullo, here is Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade!
You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard, and there are
cigars in the box."



"What's up, then?"  "You
look dissatisfied."



"Really! You surprise me."


"And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes laying his
hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.



"In heaven's name, what for?"



"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" 

"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in
the one as in the other."



"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up."


"I think it very unlikely."


"Oh, indeed!" 
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?"


"By the same brilliant reasoning, every man's body is to be found
in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And pray what did you hope
to arrive at through this?"


"I am afraid that you will find it difficult."


"And how?"



"Very good, Lestrade," "You really are
very fine indeed. Let me see it."  "This is indeed important,"


"Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly."


"On the contrary, this is the right side."


"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel
bill, which interests me deeply."

"Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to the
note, it is important also, or at least the initials are, so I
congratulate you again."


"Just one hint to you, Lestrade," "I will tell you the true solution of the matter. Lady
St. Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any
such person."


 "There is something in what the fellow says about
outdoor work," "so I think, Watson, that I must
leave you to your papers for a little."



"They have laid the supper, then," 



"Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," "I
am surprised that Lord St. Simon has not already arrived. Ha! I
fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs."



"My messenger reached you, then?" 

"Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.
Have you good authority for what you say?"



"It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that there is any
humiliation."



"I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how the
lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of
doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she
had no one to advise her at such a crisis."


"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so
unprecedented a position."



"I think that I heard a ring,"  "Yes, there are steps
on the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view
of the matter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here
who may be more successful."  "Lord St. Simon," "allow me to
introduce you to Mr. and Mrs. Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I
think, you have already met."



"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave
the room while you explain this matter?"




"I had hoped," "that you would have joined us
in a friendly supper."


"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your
company,"  "It is always a joy to meet an
American, Mr. Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the
folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far-gone
years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens
of the same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a
quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes."

"The case has been an interesting one," "because it serves to show very clearly how
simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight
seems to be almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural
than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing
stranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr.
Lestrade of Scotland Yard."


"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that
the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony,
the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of
returning home. Obviously something had occurred during the
morning, then, to cause her to change her mind. What could that
something be? She could not have spoken to anyone when she was
out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom. Had she
seen someone, then? If she had, it must be someone from America
because she had spent so short a time in this country that she
could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence
over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change
her plans so completely. You see we have already arrived, by a
process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an
American. Then who could this American be, and why should he
possess so much influence over her? It might be a lover; it might
be a husband. Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in
rough scenes and under strange conditions. So far I had got
before I ever heard Lord St. Simon's narrative. When he told us
of a man in a pew, of the change in the bride's manner, of so
transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a
bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and of her very
significant allusion to claim-jumping--which in miners' parlance
means taking possession of that which another person has a prior
claim to--the whole situation became absolutely clear. She had
gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a
previous husband--the chances being in favour of the latter."

"

"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held
information in his hands the value of which he did not himself
know. The initials were, of course, of the highest importance,
but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had
settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels."



"By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence
for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive
hotels. There are not many in London which charge at that rate.
In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I
learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H. Moulton, an
American gentleman, had left only the day before, and on looking
over the entries against him, I came upon the very items which I
had seen in the duplicate bill. His letters were to be forwarded
to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being fortunate
enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give them
some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be
better in every way that they should make their position a little
clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in
particular. I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I
made him keep the appointment."



"Ah, Watson," "perhaps you would not be
very gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and
wedding, you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of
fortune. I think that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully
and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in
the same position. Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for
the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away
these bleak autumnal evenings."







