
"It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one,
Mr. Hatherley," "Pray, lie down there and make yourself
absolutely at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are
tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant."


"'Mr. Hatherley?' 

"I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an
address. 'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'




"One horse?" 
"Yes, only one."

"Did you observe the colour?"

"Tired-looking or fresh?"



"Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you. Pray continue
your most interesting statement."



"Here is an advertisement which will interest you," "It
appeared in all the papers about a year ago. Listen to this:
'Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged
twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer. Left his lodgings at ten
o'clock at night, and has not been heard of since. Was
dressed in,' etc., etc. Ha! That represents the last time that
the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I fancy."


"Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and
desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should
stand in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out
pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship. Well,
every moment now is precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall
go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for
Eyford."


"There you are,"  "That circle is drawn at a radius of
ten miles from the village. The place we want must be somewhere
near that line. You said ten miles, I think, sir."



"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you
were unconscious?"




"I think I could lay my finger on it," 



"You are all wrong."


"Oh, yes, you can. This is my point."  "This is where we shall find them."



"Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the
horse was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that
if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"



"None at all," "They are coiners on a large scale,
and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the
place of silver."



"Well, at least," "you have had your revenge upon
them. There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which,
when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls,
though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to
observe it at the time. Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for
your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are
a good hundred miles off by now."



"Experience,"  "Indirectly it may be of
value, you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the
reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your
existence."




